---
layout: default
title: Activity
nav_order: 2
parent: Expert Evidence and Handling Evidence
has_children: false
---

# Considering the Ross Ulbricht versus United States case

## Overview
The original verdict reached in the *Ross Ulbricht versus United States* case was disputed and appealed against by the defendant's council.

## Materials
* [Ross Ulbricht versus United States case](https://www.lexisnexis.com/community/casebrief/p/casebrief-united-states-v-ulbricht).
* [Silk Road: Drugs, Death and the Dark Web](https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b092s5vv)
* 250-word summary (produced by learner).
* Guidelines (output from prior activity).

## Task 0: Form into Firms
Start-up firms that formed to generate guidelines for evidence handling should reconvene and exchange summaries of the case. Learners should spend no more than **10 minutes** considering the summaries received from other learners.

## Task 1: Discuss the case and handling of evidence
The expectation is that start-up firms should spend no more than **20 minutes** considering and discussing the primary problems with evidence handling and behaviour of investigators.

## Task 2: Application of Guidelines
Start-up firm should then apply the guidelines generated in the previous activity to the case. The start-up firm should consider whether any of the guidelines have been violated.

Start-up firm should generate **ONE** presentation slide, that highlights different examples of the guidelines being violated in the case. The presentation should take no more than **TWO** minutes to present.

## Task 3: Firms present judgements
Start-up firms are required to present their judgements to the class. The leader should introduce the presentation and team members.

The lecturer will advise when to commence and will signal when **ONE** minute is left. The class will clap the team off the stage at the **FIVE** minute point as led by the lecturer. Firms are not expected to take questions during the presentation, but may be called upon during any subsequent discussion.

#### Audience
Start-up firms when not presenting are expected to be present and listening to the presentation given by other teams. Presentation slides generated by teams will be issued after the session completes but individuals should still make notes to support subsequent discussions.

### Task 4: Guideline Refinement
Start-up firms should spend **10** minutes discussing and recalling the presentations from other start-up firms and begin to refine their guidelines.

Start-up firms should produce a **ONE** page summary in terms of how their guidelines are appropriate or how they intend to refine them. The summary must not exceed 250 words.
